The prefab panel allows you to quickly load
pre-saved Geomview files.  Each browser is
described below, followed by directions for adding
your own options to them.

The Environment Browser:

This browser allows you to load a Geomview command
file, which specifies windows, colormaps, objects,
camera positions, ... just about everything
about Geomview's state at a particular time.
Loading one of these environments may or may not
remove other windows and objects.  This is the
best approach to a quick start-up, if you want to
load up a standard set-up.  To save a command
file, use Geomview's save option. (You can get the
save panel by typing the greater than sign when
you are in one of Geomview's windows.)

The Coormap Browser:  

This browser is used to apply a pre-saved colormap
to the current window (usually the last one the
mouse has been in).  In this application, a
colormap is a function that assigns color to the
vertices of an object according to the "height" of
those vertices in a particular direction.  For
more information about how to make your own
colormap, please see the help page for the toolkit
panel.  Right now saving a colormap is tricky--
the best thing may be to save a command file (see
above) and then take out the command beginning
with "ND-color".  Note the "no-color" option on
this menu that removes a colormap from the current
window.

The Sampe Objects Browser:  

This browser contains a list of interesting higher
dimensional objects.  Loading one of these objects
via this browser causes all other Geomview objects
being displayed to be removed, so if you would
like to see several objects you may like to use
the standard Geomview load option.  Saving objects
should be done in the usual way for Geomview.

The Modues Browser:

This browser contains a list of external modules
for Geomview that make use of its higher
dimensional functionality.  Many of these are
intended to help develop visualization skills, and
the authors would like to include other modules as
they are developed.

The contents of the browsers are determined by 

1) a default file in the Geomview default data
directory under the name NDview/scripts/.ndview
2) a file named .ndview in you home directory
2) a file named .ndview in the current directory

These files may contain lines of the form
           label:type:filename
where label is the label to appear in the browser,
type is one of environment colormap object module,
and filename is the name of the file to be loaded
when the user clicks on the line of the browser
displaying that label.  Note that the label and
filename should not contain any colons.  Geomview
will complain if it is unable to find a file when
you try to load it.  An example line of the
.ndview file is
	flattorus:object:NDview/geom/thisobj.mesh
